CNTRLPLANE-3237: update preflight checker section (#2043)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/kube-apiserver/kms-encryption-foundations.md

##### Preflight Binary

> The preflight binary (`kms-preflight`) is shipped in the operator image. It runs inside a one-shot workload with the KMS plugin attached as a sidecar, using the [KMS plugin lifecycle management](#kms-plugin-lifecycle-management-tech-preview-v2) logic. The checker is deployed to match the environment of the API server it validates:

Reviewer: we discussed yesterday it will be a cobra command, or did you change your mind to compile a dedicated binary again?

Author: yes, it will be a cobra command/binary shipped within the operator image. 

I'm open to suggestions on how to make the text clearer.

Reviewer: how about:

```suggestion
The preflight code is shipped as a new command in each of the operator images. It runs inside a one-shot container with the KMS plugin attached as a sidecar, using the [KMS plugin lifecycle management](#kms-plugin-lifecycle-management-tech-preview-v2) logic. The checker is deployed to match the environment of the API server it validates:

```

- **Static pod** for kas-o, so the checker runs under the same conditions as the kube-apiserver (e.g., `hostNetwork`, no access to in-cluster DNS). A Deployment would miss issues that only appear in that environment.

> - **Deployment** for aggregated API servers (openshift-apiserver, oauth-apiserver), matching their network environment.

Reviewer 2: > the checker runs under the same conditions as the kube-apiserver

This works for the current release (or kube-apiserver state), since we can "copy" all the kube-apiserver pod configurations we think are relevant (like `hostNetwork: true`). However, the assumptions the preflight has about KAS pod will get outdated once KASO starts deploying a different configuration (in the form of a manifest change, like https://github.com/openshift/cluster-kube-apiserver-operator/pull/2193, or a runtime configuration change that a KASO controller introduces in the kube-apiserver pod). Same idea for the aggregated apiservers.

Maybe we could start with a "snapshot" of the apiserver pod and strip out irrelevant data?

> When an existing KMS plugin is already configured, the checker runs the new plugin alongside the existing one. This catches issues that only appear when multiple plugins run together, such as metric name collisions. When no plugin is configured yet, the checker runs the new plugin alone.

Reviewer: metric port collisions ;)

The binary connects to the plugin via the KMS v2 gRPC API and performs three checks:

1. **Status** — polls until the plugin reports `healthz=ok`.
2. **Encrypt** — encrypts a random payload.
3. **Decrypt** — decrypts the ciphertext and verifies the round-trip matches.

> The pod uses readiness gates to post check results back to the controller. To set the readiness gate condition, the pod needs to PATCH its own status. It uses the same credentials as the health reporter sidecar for the corresponding API server type (see [KMS Health Reporter Connectivity](#kms-health-reporter-connectivity)).

Reviewer: its own status or its operator status? 

own status will be difficult with static pods

Author: let's try with "own status" first. we can adjust if we find issues. 

it seems to be possible to update a status condition of a mirrored pod.
